All right.
It's time to talk about layout now.
We already learned how will layout works and bootstrap.
And we talked about why bootstrap became so popular now.
Don't worry.
Later on in the course I'm going to introduce you to topics like CSX grid and actually talk about really
easy ways to do layout on a page.
But for now we want us to use bootstrap because that's what we learned.
And I'm warning you this is going to seem very overwhelming.
I want to show you how bootstrap does layout because down the road when I introduce you to things like
CSX grid you're going to see how much easier we have it now than we had maybe a few years ago but I
still want you to learn how layout is done in bootstrap because you will encounter it throughout your
career.
Now if you go to the layout section on the bootstrap documentation you see over here that has some pretty
good information.
We can look at the grids and we've already talked about how grid works with bootstrap now.
The first thing we want to do is to have a container and then maybe some rows that we can use columns
on so if we go back to our page and we open up the index got a simple file.
The first thing I want to do around the body.
And one thing I'll do with my sublime text here is actually minimize the head tack here just so we can
see a little bit.
So I'm going to just click on this and look at that.
It's minimized so I can just focus on the body.
The first thing I want to do is say that I want to create a div with a class of container just like
that and then we'll close this right over here.
So let's indent that properly.
Let's save and refresh right.
We have everything in a container.
Next is that we want to ideally all of these things to be in a row.
So we want the H1 the H.R. and the button to just be a row one row that we have that is in the center
of the page.
So I'm just going to wrap this in a div and give it a class of row so once again let's close the div
and indent this again.
If I refresh not much has changed we may have lost the H.R. we'll get back to that in a second but we
have a row now so that if I inspect let's say view developer tools
and I click on this inspect I see well these elements if I go over here and let's open this up.
Make this a little bit smaller.
We see that we have the body we have the div which is the container and then we have the row right here.
All right let me close this let's divide up these items into different sections.
We have the header element that we can use.
And this header element will contain the H one over here.
So we have the header and one thing that we can use with bootstrap is a class called text center and
text center as you might guess.
If I refresh centers the text.
So that's great.
That's our header element.
And we also want to create a another section here.
Let's call it section.
So this is a section element and this section element will also have the class text center.
So if I refresh There you go.
We got our H.R. horizontal line back.
Hmm.
Why isn't this center let's inspect this and find out.
So I can open developer tools by pressing command option i or control option i if you're on a windows
and
let's look at the elements we have the container we have the RO We have the header and then we have
the section.
Mm hmm.
Now we see over here that these ones aren't taking up the full width as we would want of the container.
And we've seen this before with bootstrap.
Right.
We have to use this columns to tell it hey we want to contain or expand along the call
and because bootstrap uses a 12 grid system we can just say in here in the header we want the column
12 grid and then for the section we want the column 12 grid.
So if I refresh There you go look at that.
If I go over here I see that we have the row we have the header and then we have the text which as you
can see contains the full amount of the container in the blue that's looking a lot better.
That's great.
Now if I close this home are taxed and Bunn it's still at the top.
Ideally it's in the middle of the image.
How can we fix this now.
This part is really really tricky.
If I actually search vertical alignment here you'll see that bootstrap has some vertical alignment options
but these ones are using inline inline block inline table which is actually not the recommended way.
Now the way we're going to do this is we're going to use flex.
And this is a new feature with bootstrap because they're using the Flex box utilities that we've learned
about.
Right.
So if I go over here you can see that I can activate the Flex box system by using the D flex class.
So if I copy this and go to container and say deflects if I refresh.
All right.
Nothing happened because we've just enabled flex box but now we want to make sure that we can place
things vertically in the center and this if we scroll down is what we want right here a line items.
If we look over here it's a line items.
Center so if I copy this which is this one over here and we add a line items Center five refresh.
This isn't working and this is a little tricky.
And I'm showing you this just to understand how to debug things.
So let's say you just did this and for some reason you don't understand why this isn't working on the
documentation page.
Clearly it shows us that this should be working well we can inspect.
So let's right click inspect and have a look at our H2 mail page.
We have the container and then the body.
Now you see here how everything is in the container.
And as a matter of fact if we look at the container we're actually aligning items in the center because
the container is actually not the full page.
It's only the top part.
Right.
It's just this part.
So here the container is not fully covering the page.
So what we need to do just like we have in body if we look at style here you see how we have height
of 100 percent all we need to do is tell the container that hey I want you to span the entire height
of the page and then bootstrap.
We can do that by saying height one hundred instead of adding the CSF stuff if I save this and refresh
look at that.
Five hover.
You'll see that my container is now the full length of the page and our writing is right in the middle.
If I scroll up or down look at that it's adjusting properly.
Everything is centered.
Now don't worry if this takes you a long time to figure out.
Sometimes it involves googling around figure things out like it said later on in the CSX layout section
of the course I'll actually show you how to make this so much simpler.
Now the last thing I want to do is well right here I want to have a bit of space between the writing
and the button.
So what can we do here.
I want to another section in between these two to hopefully buffer them away from each other so we can
create that fairly easily we can just add a new div and we'll give it a class here of buffer that we'll
have to write ourselves in this buffer class will be in between the header and then the horizontal line
and the button.
So let's also give this a column of 12 because we want to make sure that it covers the entire area.
But right now there's nothing.
If I right click here and inspect
you'll see here that I have the buffer but the buffer doesn't have anything.
It's completely empty because while there's nothing inside here but we can add a style let's say dot
buffer in this buffer will have a height of what should we say.
Well if I do let's say 50 pixels and I refresh look at that I get a nice little buffer.
So now if I scroll over to buffer you see that I have a 50 pixel height buffer but I always like using
our yen instead of pixels so let's do our.
Let's see what five RTM means.
All right.
That's good.
Maybe a little bit more.
Let's do 10.
Ah yeah let's save and refresh.
All right.
That looks actually quite nice.
Fly close this down open it up.
Yeah.
Look at that.
Now looks really really nice.
And there we go.
We have our startup landing page right here.
Everything looks pretty nice right.
And the way we've organized things seems pretty clean.
Our button is well when we hover available but whenever I click on this button nothing's happening.
Ideally we have a new page that opens up so that we can enter or our customers can enter their e-mails.
And this is the exciting part that we're going to get to in the next video I'll see in that one by.